Treat data as an independent research output.
A key priority in data sharing is to ensure that data sets are treated as independent, reusable research outputs, not as byproducts of a publication.
This means that the data set should be clear.
Others should be able to understand what the data represents without needing access to the original researchers.
Organized.
File structures, naming conventions, and folder hierarchies should be logical and easy to follow.
Well-documented.
Context, methodology, and file contents must be explained in sufficient detail.
To illustrate this need, many of us have experienced situations where we inherit data from a former student or colleague, only to find it impossible to interpret or reuse due to a lack of documentation or structure.
By documenting and curating your data effectively, you make it possible for others and for your future self to understand and build upon your work.